
#what is NEPI?
NEPI is a Python-based library to model and run network experiments on a variety of network evaluation platforms, including **PlanetLab**, **OMF** wireless testbeds, **ns-3** simulators, and others.

It allows to specify resources to use in an experiment, to define experiment workflow constraints and to automate deployment, resource control and result collection.

NEPI has **automatic experiment deployment**, **automatic result collection** and allow **interactive expermentation**. NEPI also lets you create **hybrid experiments with multiple platforms** and it has **free open source license (GPLv2)**.

Imagine that you want to run an experiment to test a distributed application you just coded, on the Internet. You can use NEPI to deploy your application on PlanetLab nodes, run the experiment, and collect result files you might have generated during the experiment (e.g. pcap files from tcpudmps).

Sure, you could do this by coding your own BASH script, but it will probably take more time and painful hours of debugging if you want to do it right. NEPI aims at providing a re-usable code base to run network experiments on target experimentation platforms, so to decrease the time you spend in developing platform specific scripts or programs, and debugging them.

In a nut-shell, NEPI is a network experiment management framework which provides a simple way of describing network experiments, and the logic to automatically deploy those experiments on the target experimentation environments. It also provides the means to control the resources used in the experiment (e.g. Nodes, applications, switches, virtual machines, routing table entries, etc ) during experiment execution, and to collect results generated by the experiment to a local repository.What is NEPI?

The idea behind NEPI is to allow to run network experiments on potentially any experimentation platform, using a single software tool, as opposite to using a dedicated software for each platform. An additional perk is that you don't have to deal with a lot of platform-specific gory details of setting up and configuring the resources (e.g. Creating a TAP device on Planetlab. If you ever had to do that, you know what I mean). Also, you could combine resources from different platforms in a same experiment, using just one script.

#what does NEPI stands for?
It stands for: **Network Experiment Programming Interface**.

#who developed NEPI?
NEPI was developed at **INRIA**, **Sophia Antipolis** France. A first prototype was implemented in 2010. Versions 1.0 and 2.0 were released in 2011 and 2012, respectively. The current version is 6.0, and it was completely redesigned and rewritten to broaden the scope, and to include several new features.

#is it free?
**Yes**, NEPI is free software. It is free to use, free to modify, free to share. NEPI v3.0 is licensed under GPL v2, so you can do whatever you want with it, as long as you keep the same license.
